Hey welcome back.
In this video we're going to learn our first bit of Python syntax.
Very simple.
It's called the print function but also we're going to see how to execute python files which is really
the focus.
We just need to have something to put in those files.
And for now it's just going to be print.
So I think it would be best if you follow along or you try to follow along with what I'm going to do
because you need to make sure that these steps work on your machine.
In order for you to have a good time through the rest of the course we'll be doing this all the time.
So what we're going to do is make a new file and I'm going to make it just on my desktop.
You have a lot of options for how you do that.
You could do it through Power Shell.
If you watch that section there are commands that we can do using the power show you could do it through
sublime which is what I'm going to do.
So I've open sublime and I'm going to go control and to make a new file.
And let's just save this one as first.
Why are first app.
Why.
OK.
App is it.
Let's go with first program APIs too generous of a name.
First program dot p y.
And on the desktop.
So make sure you're putting it on your desktop because we're going to need to navigate to that desktop
in power shell to actually execute it.
OK so I'm going to save it.
They're not going to put it in a folder just right on the desktop safe.
P-wave very important.
And let's just start by typing your name in quotes or hello in quotes.
And you should get some syntax highlighting where instead of quotes it turns a certain color depending
on the color scheme you have set up.
You can change that here and will save control pass or fail save.
So now for the actual part of executing this code we just need to open up power shell to search for
and we need to navigate to that file.
So this is why I included that whole command line section.
If you are unfamiliar with the command center I'm going to show just go back and watch some of the videos.
You don't have to watch everything but focus on LS PWT and CD.
So I type.
LS And by default remember I open up in my home directory which is my username Colt and I can see here
is my desktop so I need to move to my desktop CD desktop use tab for autocomplete or type.
LS My file is here.
First program dot p y.
So now I need to run this and before I showed you just type in command just typing Python and hitting
enter opens up the REPL I'll quit out of there.
We're going to execute this file though because that Python REPL is great for trying things out just
to see how something works or for educational purposes.
But when we actually write code it's going to be in a file like this to run this.
Let me just clear.
I'm going to run Python the same command space.
The name of the file and I'll just use auto complete with tab.
Python first programmed.
Why and I'm going to hit enter.
There's Python code in there.
But nothing happens but that's a good sign because that means that it branded as Python and didn't encounter
any problems.
For example if I went in here and then tried to type something like this jibberish it's not in quotes.
And I'd typed I saved the file control us and I go back I'll use the up arrow to recall that line.
I try and run it.
Now I get this error message name error which is not defined.
It doesn't know what I'm talking about.
So it is a good sign that we didn't encounter any errors in the first time we ran the file but to actually
output something so we see something printed out.
We need to use our first bit of Python code which is the print function.
So we type print P R I N T with opening closing parentheses no space afterwards just like this.
And whatever we put inside of here I'll just cut that out and paste it in.
That is what will be printed out.
So feel free to change the message.
Just going to save that file.
So make sure you save a lot of times people who are new to coding forget to save.
Then we go and run it.
Oh I do recall that same line Python the name of the file and now it prints out Hello.
Whereas previously we had that the text here is called the string.
We'll focus on that in just one or two sections from now.
It was running it as Python code but it wasn't doing anything.
It was like whispering Hello into the dark and it just disappeared into the infinite abyss of Python.
Now we're printing it out so that we can see it and that's all that will cover about print.
For now it's just a function that prints something out to your Power Shell or to your standard out is
what it's called.
Whatever context you're running Python and it will be printed in.
So if somebody's on a Mac ran the same code they downloaded your exact file you made on your PC.
They run it on their Mac.
The same thing happens except it doesn't print out in power show it prints out in the Mac terminal.
OK.
So to wrap that up.
Just make sure that you're comfortable enough writing a new file so whether it's File menu or control
and sublime putting a single line like a print function call inside of it and then navigating to it
using Power Shell and executing it.
And if you're not and I recommend you go back and just watch the videos on cd ls and PWT in the command
bind section.
I know it's not that fun and you want to get to Python but we need to be able to run our python files.
Ok I'll shut up now.
Next you have the world's simplest exercise in the utility coding exercise platform.
It's by far the easiest one you'll have.
All you have to do is print your name on a single line and it's not really about testing your knowledge
it's just to make sure that you're comfortable using the platform.
Type your code and hit submit.
And if you write print and you do it correctly you should see something good.
If you don't it will ask you or tell you there's an error.
So that's next.